---
title: "6 STeP-UNet: Prediction of Moving and Communication Behaviors of Vehicles"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-10-10-p6-STeP-UNet
# excerpt: '---.'
#date: 2018-09-30
venue: 'Journal 6'
paperurl: 'http://liangdaojun.github.io/files/p6-STeP-UNet.pdf'
citation: 'Liang, Daojun, et al. "STeP-UNet: Prediction of Moving and Communication Behaviors of Vehicles." 2021 IEEE 94th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2021-Fall). IEEE, 2021.'

---

[Download](http://liangdaojun.github.io/files/p6-STeP-UNet.pdf)
[Code Come soon!](https://github.com/liangdaojun)
[Citation](http://liangdaojun.github.io/files/c6-STeP-UNet.bib)

**Abstract**
Wireless traffic prediction has drawn increasing research interests as it can provide guidance to the network optimization. With the predicted information, one can preassign the resources on demand and perform network congestion control adaptively. The network efficiency is therefore enhanced. However, the wireless traffic prediction in the context of mobile scenario, such as Internet of Vehicles (IoVs), is still a challenge issue. The mobile nature of devices, which dynamically changes the topology of network, would brings difficulties to the prediction. This paper focuses on the deep learning based wireless traffic prediction in the IoVs scenario. We first propose a novel method to match up the movement- and communication-behavior of users, by merging two independent datasets on the trajectories of vehicles and communication traffic volumes together. Then a novel STeP-UNet is proposed, in which the SpatioTemporal Partial (STeP) Convolutional Neural Network module is embedded to capture cross-domain features of the wireless traffic pattern, and the UNet structure is utilized to realize the skipping connection from front layer to back layer to fuse different resolutions. Experimental results confirms the promising performance of the proposed model, where 4%~8% performance improvement over other benchmark methods can be achieved.